{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 --I made this project in which a dataset is used by me \par
--and solving some questions, related to the dataset by the help of sql queries.\par
\par
\par
CREATE DATABASE Company;\par
\par
USE Company;\par
\par
CREATE TABLE jobs(\par
  id INTEGER\par
  ,work_year INTEGER\par
  ,experience_level VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,employment_type VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,job_title VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,salary INTEGER\par
  ,salary_currency VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,salary_in_usd INTEGER\par
  ,employee_residence VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,remote_ratio INTEGER\par
  ,company_location VARCHAR(20)\par
  ,company_size VARCHAR(20)\par
);\par
\par
CREATE TABLE companies(\par
id INT,\par
company_name VARCHAR(20));\par
\par
select * from companies\par
\par
select * from jobs\par
\par
\par
--##1. What is the average salary for all the jobs in the dataset?\par
\par
SELECT AVG(salary) AS average_salary FROM jobs;\par
\par
--##2. What is the highest salary in the dataset and which job role does it correspond to?\par
\par
SELECT MAX(salary) AS highest_salary, job_title FROM jobs;\par
\par
--##3. What is the average salary for data scientists in US?\par
\par
SELECT AVG(salary) AS average_salary FROM jobs WHERE job_title = 'Data Scientist' AND company_location = 'US';\par
\par
--##4. What is the number of jobs available for each job title?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs FROM jobs GROUP BY job_title;\par
\par
--##5. What is the total salary paid for all data analyst jobs in DE?\par
\par
SELECT SUM(salary) AS total_salary_paid FROM jobs WHERE job_title = 'Data Analyst' AND company_location = 'DE';\par
\par
--##6. What are the top 5 highest paying job titles and their corresponding average salaries?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, AVG(salary) AS average_salary FROM jobs GROUP BY job_title ORDER BY average_salary DESC LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##7. What is the number of jobs available in each location?\par
\par
SELECT company_location, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs FROM jobs GROUP BY company_location;\par
\par
--##8. What are the top 3 job titles that have the most jobs available in the dataset?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs FROM jobs GROUP BY job_title ORDER BY num_jobs DESC LIMIT 3;\par
\par
--##9. What is the average salary for data engineers in Boston?\par
\par
SELECT AVG(salary) AS average_salary FROM jobs WHERE job_title = 'Data Engineer' AND company_location = 'Boston'; #change with some other location\par
\par
--##10. What are the top 5 cities with the highest average salaries?\par
\par
SELECT company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary FROM jobs GROUP BY company_location ORDER BY average_salary DESC LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##11. What is the average salary for each job title, and what is the total number of jobs available for each job title?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title;\par
\par
--##12. What are the top 5 job titles with the highest total salaries, and what is the total number of jobs available for each job title?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, SUM(salary) AS total_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title \par
ORDER BY total_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##13. What are the top 5 locations with the highest total salaries, and what is the total number of jobs available for each location?\par
\par
SELECT company_location, SUM(salary) AS total_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY company_location \par
ORDER BY total_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##14. What is the average salary for each job title in each location, and what is the total number of jobs available for each job title in each location?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_location;\par
\par
--##15. What is the average salary for each job title in each location, and what is the percentage of jobs for each job title in each location?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, \par
(COUNT(*) * 100 / (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM jobs WHERE company_location = j.company_location)) AS job_percentage \par
FROM jobs j \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_location;\par
\par
--##16. What are the top 5 job titles with the highest average salaries, and what is the total number of jobs available for each job title?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title \par
ORDER BY average_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##17. What is the average salary for each job title, and what is the percentage of jobs for each job title in the dataset?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, \par
(COUNT(*) * 100 / (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM jobs)) AS job_percentage \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title;\par
\par
\par
--##18. What is the total number of jobs available for each year of experience, and what is the average salary for each year of experience?\par
\par
SELECT experience_level, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs, AVG(salary) AS average_salary \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY experience_level;\par
/*\par
EN, which refers to Entry-level / Junior.\par
MI, which refers to Mid-level / Intermediate.\par
SE, which refers to Senior-level / Expert.\par
EX, which refers to Executive-level / Director.\par
*/\par
\par
\par
\par
--##19. What are the top 5 job titles with the highest average salaries in each location?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary \par
FROM jobs \par
WHERE job_title IN (SELECT job_title FROM jobs GROUP BY job_title ORDER BY AVG(salary) DESC) \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_location;\par
\par
--##20. What is the average salary for each degree level, and what is the total number of jobs available for each degree level?\par
\par
SELECT degree_level, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY degree_level;\par
\par
--#21. What are the top 5 job titles with the highest salaries, and what is the name of the company that offers the highest salary for each job title?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, MAX(salary) AS highest_salary, company_name \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
GROUP BY job_title \par
ORDER BY highest_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##22. What is the total number of jobs available for each job title, and what is the name of the company that offers the highest salary for each job title?\par
\par
\par
SELECT job_title, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs, company_name \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
WHERE salary = (SELECT MIN(salary) FROM jobs WHERE job_title = jobs.job_title) \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_name;\par
\par
- Assignment\par
\par
--##23. What are the top 5 cities with the highest average salaries, and what is the name of the company that offers the highest salary for each city?\par
\par
SELECT company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, company_name \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
GROUP BY company_location \par
ORDER BY average_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--##24. What is the average salary for each job title in each company, and what is the rank of each job title within each company based on the average salary?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_name, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, \par
RANK() OVER (PARTITION BY company_name ORDER BY AVG(salary) DESC) AS salary_rank \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_name;\par
\par
--##25. What is the total number of jobs available for each job title in each location, and what is the rank of each job title within each location based on the total number of jobs?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_location, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs, \par
RANK() OVER (PARTITION BY company_location ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC) AS job_rank \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY job_title, company_location;\par
\par
\par
--#26. What is the average salary for each job title in each location, and what is the name of the company that offers the highest salary for each job title in each location?\par
\par
SELECT job_title, company_location, AVG(salary) AS average_salary, company_name \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
WHERE salary = (SELECT MAX(salary) FROM jobs WHERE job_title = j.job_title AND company_location = j.location) \par
GROUP BY job_title, location, company_name;\par
\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
--#27. What are the top 5 companies with the highest average salaries for data scientist positions, and what is the rank of each company based on the average salary?\par
\par
SELECT company_name, AVG(salary) AS average_salary,\par
RANK() OVER (ORDER BY AVG(salary) DESC) AS salary_rank \par
FROM jobs \par
INNER JOIN companies ON jobs.id = companies.id \par
WHERE job_title = 'Data Scientist' \par
GROUP BY company_name \par
ORDER BY average_salary DESC \par
LIMIT 5;\par
\par
--#28. What is the total number of jobs available for each year of experience in each location, and what is the rank of each year of experience within each location based on the total number of jobs?\par
\par
SELECT work_year, company_location, COUNT(*) AS num_jobs, \par
RANK() OVER (PARTITION BY company_location ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC) AS experience_rank \par
FROM jobs \par
GROUP BY work_year, company_location;\par
\par
\par
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM jobs \par
\par
--Thank you \par
\par
\par
}
 